README.md, before:

# Personal Portfolio Project

# Live Site Links
<p>Live Site: <a href="https://peaceful-lichterman-8455b7.netlify.com/">https://peaceful-lichterman-8455b7.netlify.com/</a></p>
<p>GitHub repo:<a href="https://github.com/PraveenMut/portfolio-project">https://github.com/PraveenMut/portfolio-project</a></p>

# Design Ethos (Purpose)

The design principles and its related ethos was inspired from a blend of sleek gradients (the current generation of design with flat UI) and "brutualist"/"raw" design from analytical websites such as Bloomberg. This unique blend juxtaposes each other in a tasteful manner which reflects my personality as a whole.

Due to the nature of the purpose, a desktop-first approach (Macbook, iPad) was in mind rather than mobile. 
 
It employs a contrasting colour palette of Blues, Pinks/Light-reds, Blacks, Whites (monochromatic) and pastille/cream whites for content boxes.

The main design focus was drawn back to the "raw" design mentality where the typography and clean visual hierarchy is centre-stage instead of complications such as excessive images which distract away from the clean UI.

However, text, progress bars were designed in the gradient/flat UI.

# Design Intracies (Process):


# Project Timeline

Similar to trello, the process of the project revolved around inspiration for design,mockups with design on Figma, mental aspects of designs, visiting beautiful, simple yet functional websites such as:

<p><a href="www.bloomberg.com">www.bloomberg.com</a></p>
<p><a href="www.stripe.com">www.stripe.com</a></p>
<p><a href="www.nytimes.com">www.nytimes.com</a></p>
<p><a href="https://1stwebdesigner.com/inspiration-brutalist-web-design/">https://1stwebdesigner.com/inspiration-brutalist-web-design/</p>

After conceiving of designs, this was created in a final sketch in Figma. This was consequently approved and then the development of the website commenced with a focus on modularity rather building an entire =
Therefore, the website was built on a component-first approach. This is where components were initially developed (in a canonical navigation/drectory order) and then these components were replicated and then stitched together to create the overall webpage.

Afterwards, design considerations for mobile were undertaken by ensuring that for small viewports, relevant media queries were utilised to hide the navigation and components that were not optimised for mobile were altered to display the content as best as possible despite the lack of real estate. 

# Trello

<img src="/docs/trello.png" />

# Functionality / Features

Referring back to core design ethos of simplicity, fast performance (optimised SVG path images less than 2KB or large images lossy compressed while preserving detail, only 1 PNG used for logo due to the complexity of the image.

Therefore, a tasteful gradient navbar, with a logo and a clean navigation in the center with clear contact at the bottom alongside unobtrusive content on the right. There is a dynamic component on the contact page where a user can post a comment and is sent to my email address. 

# Site Map

The site follows a straight-forward "brutualist"/"raw" UX emphaising ease of use than unneeded complications as previously stated. Therefore, the site offers 4 distinct sections: Home, About, Portfolio and Contact.

## Home

Home contains all of the main information that propsective viewers are looking for. This includes my name, who I am and skillsets. 

## About
Detailed information about myself with a description of my experiences in industry, listing interests and providing a condensed excerpt of my resume with a link to the full resume. 

## Portfolio
This page provides a clean view of all of the projects that I have completed.

## Contact
This area provides an area for prospective employers to contact me.

# Screenshots

# Target Audience

The target audience of the portfolio project will be other professionals, employers and other individuals interested in discussing opportunities or technical topics with me. The overall goal of this portfolio project is to showcase my skills and provide a online presence.

# Tech Stack

This site uses the vanilla HTML5 & CSS3 stack to adhere to project requirements. The site is deployed to Netlify with Continuous Integration from GitHub.

# Questions and Answers

## Key events in the development of the Internet

## The fundamentals of the Internet

At its core, the Internet is a set of interconnected networks that connect a computer with another in a mesh-based form. 

Thus, to orchestrate such a vast network where there is little order, protocols and layers need to be established.

The techniques are as follows:
- Packet Handling and Transport Handling (UDP, TCP/IP)
- The routing of traffic (DNS)
- The protocol method of transmitting client-server data in a formalised manner (HTTP, FTP)

### Packet Handling
This allows for transport of data from one PC to another PC (typically client to server) to occur in a formalised manner. This is the base layer that can allow traffic to flwo

### DNS
DNS, or Domain Name System, is a decentralized directory that translates domain names from the transport layer (base layer) to IPs and then routes it to the correct server.

### HTTP
These allow for data from requests from URLs to occur. HTML documents can be sent through this protocol.

## Impact of the Internet to the world
The original goal of the internet was to provide the collective intelligence of many individuals across the globe. As there is no restrictions (until recently) on what knowledge could be shared, this is single handedly the most powerful innovation created by mankind. Instead of being restricted on the intelligence of what 1 individual or corporation, now anyone, anywhere, regardless of any status can access the world's knowledge in the hands of their pocket. 

Ordering a pizza? Sure! Booking a ticket? Sure! Understanding science? Don't run to the library for outdated texts, just go type it in Google. Not sure where you are and need a taxi? Easy.

One is only limited by their imagination through disruptive technology of the Internet.

Ordering a pizza? Sure! Booking a ticket? Sure! Understanding science? Don't run to the library for outdated texts, just go type it in Google. Not sure where you are and need a taxi? Easy.

One is only limited by their imagination through disruptive technology of the Internet.

Commit message:

adding Key Events in the development of the Internet

README.md, after:

# Personal Portfolio Project

# Live Site Links
<p>Live Site: <a href="https://peaceful-lichterman-8455b7.netlify.com/">https://peaceful-lichterman-8455b7.netlify.com/</a></p>
<p>GitHub repo:<a href="https://github.com/PraveenMut/portfolio-project">https://github.com/PraveenMut/portfolio-project</a></p>

# Design Ethos (Purpose)

The design principles and its related ethos was inspired from a blend of sleek gradients (the current generation of design with flat UI) and "brutualist"/"raw" design from analytical websites such as Bloomberg. This unique blend juxtaposes each other in a tasteful manner which reflects my personality as a whole.

Due to the nature of the purpose, a desktop-first approach (Macbook, iPad) was in mind rather than mobile. 
 
It employs a contrasting colour palette of Blues, Pinks/Light-reds, Blacks, Whites (monochromatic) and pastille/cream whites for content boxes.

The main design focus was drawn back to the "raw" design mentality where the typography and clean visual hierarchy is centre-stage instead of complications such as excessive images which distract away from the clean UI.

However, text, progress bars were designed in the gradient/flat UI.

# Design Intracaies (Process):


# Project Timeline

Similar to trello, the process of the project revolved around inspiration for design,mockups with design on Figma, mental aspects of designs, visiting beautiful, simple yet functional websites such as:

<p><a href="www.bloomberg.com">www.bloomberg.com</a></p>
<p><a href="www.stripe.com">www.stripe.com</a></p>
<p><a href="www.nytimes.com">www.nytimes.com</a></p>
<p><a href="https://1stwebdesigner.com/inspiration-brutalist-web-design/">https://1stwebdesigner.com/inspiration-brutalist-web-design/</p>

After conceiving of designs, this was created in a final sketch in Figma. This was consequently approved and then the development of the website commenced with a focus on modularity rather building an entire =
Therefore, the website was built on a component-first approach. This is where components were initially developed (in a canonical navigation/drectory order) and then these components were replicated and then stitched together to create the overall webpage.

Afterwards, design considerations for mobile were undertaken by ensuring that for small viewports, relevant media queries were utilised to hide the navigation and components that were not optimised for mobile were altered to display the content as best as possible despite the lack of real estate. 

# Trello

<img src="/docs/trello.png" />

# Functionality / Features

Referring back to core design ethos of simplicity, fast performance (optimised SVG path images less than 2KB or large images lossy compressed while preserving detail, only 1 PNG used for logo due to the complexity of the image.

Therefore, a tasteful gradient navbar, with a logo and a clean navigation in the center with clear contact at the bottom alongside unobtrusive content on the right. There is a dynamic component on the contact page where a user can post a comment and is sent to my email address. 

# Site Map

The site follows a straight-forward "brutualist"/"raw" UX emphaising ease of use than unneeded complications as previously stated. Therefore, the site offers 4 distinct sections: Home, About, Portfolio and Contact.

## Home

Home contains all of the main information that propsective viewers are looking for. This includes my name, who I am and skillsets. 

## About
Detailed information about myself with a description of my experiences in industry, listing interests and providing a condensed excerpt of my resume with a link to the full resume. 

## Portfolio
This page provides a clean view of all of the projects that I have completed.

## Contact
This area provides an area for prospective employers to contact me.

# Screenshots

# Target Audience

The target audience of the portfolio project will be other professionals, employers and other individuals interested in discussing opportunities or technical topics with me. The overall goal of this portfolio project is to showcase my skills and provide a online presence.

# Tech Stack

This site uses the vanilla HTML5 & CSS3 stack to adhere to project requirements. The site is deployed to Netlify with Continuous Integration from GitHub.

# Questions and Answers

## Key events in the development of the Internet

1962 - Discussion of a Galatic Network
1966 - APRANET draft
1967 - APRANET published
1980 - Ethernet Standard Introduced
1981 - Computer Science Network
1992 - ISPs offer dialup in the U.S. (28.8k)
1993 - Amazon is incorporated, an internet revolution is born
2000 - Dot Com bubble burst
2003 - Facebook founded
2014 - SV Boom, VC Funding hits a record high, a "Yo!" app is valued at $1,000,000 USD

## The fundamentals of the Internet

At its core, the Internet is a set of interconnected networks that connect a computer with another in a mesh-based form. 

Thus, to orchestrate such a vast network where there is little order, protocols and layers need to be established.

The techniques are as follows:
- Packet Handling and Transport Handling (UDP, TCP/IP)
- The routing of traffic (DNS)
- The protocol method of transmitting client-server data in a formalised manner (HTTP, FTP)

### Packet Handling
This allows for transport of data from one PC to another PC (typically client to server) to occur in a formalised manner. This is the base layer that can allow traffic to flwo

### DNS
DNS, or Domain Name System, is a decentralized directory that translates domain names from the transport layer (base layer) to IPs and then routes it to the correct server.

### HTTP
These allow for data from requests from URLs to occur. HTML documents can be sent through this protocol.

## Impact of the Internet to the world
The original goal of the internet was to provide the collective intelligence of many individuals across the globe. As there is no restrictions (until recently) on what knowledge could be shared, this is single handedly the most powerful innovation created by mankind. Instead of being restricted on the intelligence of what 1 individual or corporation, now anyone, anywhere, regardless of any status can access the world's knowledge in the hands of their pocket. 

Ordering a pizza? Sure! Booking a ticket? Sure! Understanding science? Don't run to the library for outdated texts, just go type it in Google. Not sure where you are and need a taxi? Easy.

One is only limited by their imagination through disruptive technology of the Internet.

Ordering a pizza? Sure! Booking a ticket? Sure! Understanding science? Don't run to the library for outdated texts, just go type it in Google. Not sure where you are and need a taxi? Easy.

One is only limited by their imagination through disruptive technology of the Internet.
